coding different to programming, which is zooming out and trying to understand tools to use
resource request response - headers cookies - important to learn 
http set of rules
content v container
----------------------------------------------------------------------------
HTML / CSS / DOM (Document Object Model)
The browser loads the HTML (e.g. receives it from the network, through HTTP).
It converts the HTML into a DOM (Document Object Model). The DOM represents the document in the computer's memory (open the console).
The browser then fetches most of the resources that are linked to by the HTML document, such as embedded images, videos, and even linked CSS! JavaScript is handled a bit later on in the process.
The browser parses the fetched CSS, and sorts the different rules by their selector types into different "buckets", e.g. element, class, ID, and so on. Based on the selectors it finds, it works out which rules should be applied to which nodes in the DOM, and attaches style to them (DOM nodes) as required (this intermediate step is called a render tree).
The render tree is laid out in the structure it should appear in after the rules have been applied to it.
The visual display of the page is shown on the screen (this stage is called painting).

DOM
The DOM, or Document Object Model, is an application programming interface that represents the structure and content of a web document, typically in the form of HTML. DOM presents the elements of a webpage as individual nodes and objects, allowing different programming languages to interact with the content of the page. DOM provides an object-oriented representation of a webpage and allows a programming language, such as JavaScript, to easily access the document structure.

CSSOM
The CSSOM, or the CSS Object Model, is a set of application programming interfaces for accessing and modifying the style-related information of a webpage. The CSSOM contains all the selectors and selector properties needed to correctly render the page. CSSOM is to CSS what DOM is to HTML, except that it deals with the styling of a webpage rather than its structure.

RENDER TREE
A render tree is a collection of objects that has to be rendered by the browser to present the information in an easily accessible manner. A render tree consists of multiple smaller elements that need to be rendered
The structure of a render tree is consistent with the structure of the DOM: every string of text is represented by a separate element that has its corresponding DOM object and calculated style. 

HOW DOES A BROWSER RENDER A WEBPAGE?
Rendering a webpage is something a browser does on a daily basis, and there is a standard procedure for doing it that the browser goes through every time there is a page to render. Here are the steps it takes to turn a few thousand lines of code into a webpage a user expects to see.

(1) HTML is received from the server and processed into the DOM.
(2) The styles are loaded and parsed into the CSSOM.
(3) The render tree is created using the DOM and CSSOM.
(4) The browser creates a layout for each render tree element with its individual coordinates using the flow method, which requires just one pass to layout all the elements, compared to the tables method that requires more than one pass.
(5) The information is displayed in the browser window in its final form through the last stage of the process, also known as painting.
Every time the user interacts with the page or the scripts alter it in any way, additional steps are required, as both the structure and the style of the document can possibly be modified and need to be updated. In many cases, a complete re-rendering is not necessary, and the webpage can be updated with one of the two following techniques.

7 TIPS FOR OPTIMISING WEBPAGE RENDERINips for optimizing your webpage rendering
To make your webpages render faster and to maximize their performance regardless of the end user’s device and configuration, use these 7 tips to optimize the rendering process:

(1) Create valid HTML and CSS with proper document encoding specifications. Styles should be included in the file and the scripts should be attached to the end of the tag.
(2) Go for simple CSS selectors whenever possible — CSS preprocessors are not always the preferred option from the optimization standpoint. Minimize the nesting levels. In terms of performance, this is how CSS selectors rank, from fastest to slowest:
 - Identificator (#id).
 - Class (.class).
 - Tag (div).
 - Adjacent sibling selector (a + i).
 - Parent selector (ul > li).
 - Universal selector (*).
 - Attribute selector (input[type="text"]).
 - Pseudoclasses and pseudoelements (a:hover).

(3) Refrain from manipulating the DOM as much as possible and maximize the use of cache whenever it’s appropriate, especially with properties and objects that will be reused. When performing complex manipulations, working with an element that is stored in the memory and only then appending it to the DOM is a better use of the available resources.
(4) When using jQuery to select elements, make sure to implement the best practices for writing jQuery selectors.
(5) When you need to change the style of the element, doing it with the help of the .class attribute is the most efficient option. And the deeper in the DOM tree you perform this change, the better for the rendering process.
(6) If possible, animate only elements with a fixed or absolute position: they are going to require fewer resources to render properly than a statically positioned element.
(7) You can try disabling complex :hover animations while scrolling to prevent the rendering webpage from slowing down the system.

HTTP
HTTP: is an application layer protocol that allows web-based applications (client–server software application accessible over the internet) to communicate and exchange data or generally an application protocol for distributed, hypermedia information systems. HTTP is the foundation of data communication for the World Wide Web, where hypertext documents include hyperlinks to other resources that the user can access. HTTP functions as a request-response protocol in the client–server computing model, and it is not only used to send and retrieve data for browsers, but it’s also a very common method of integrating applications. Link to MDN HTTP overview.

 - Request: A packet of information sent from a client (often a browser) to a web server.
 - Response: The payload that a webserver sends back to a client in response to the request.
 - User Agent: A user agent is a piece of software acting on behalf of the user, typically a browser.
 - URL: Uniform Resource Locator. Indicates how to get to something on the web. It’s essentially an address.
 - Headers: A set of key/value pairs sent as part of a web request, or received as a response to a request that aren’t part of the contents. These are essentially request metadata.
 - HTTP Methods: Indicates the intent or action of a web request.
HTTP defines a set of request methods to indicate the desired action to be performed for a given resource. Although they can also be nouns, these request methods are sometimes referred to as HTTP verbs. (https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Methods)
GET - The GET method requests a representation of the specified resource. Requests using GET should only retrieve data.
HEAD - The HEAD method asks for a response identical to a GET request, but without the response body.
POST - The POST method submits an entity to the specified resource, often causing a change in state or side effects on the server.
PUT - The PUT method replaces all current representations of the target resource with the request payload.
DELETE - The DELETE method deletes the specified resource.
CONNECT - The CONNECT method establishes a tunnel to the server identified by the target resource.
OPTIONS - The OPTIONS method describes the communication options for the target resource.
TRACE - The TRACE method performs a message loop-back test along the path to the target resource.
PATCH - The PATCH method applies partial modifications to a resource.
 - Cookie: A small piece of data that the server sends to the client (and vice versa) that is maintained for the client as long as the client session lasts.
 - Session: The server side storage of information that should persist for the period of a user’s interaction with a website.
 - Cache: A store of the response to an http request. This is intended to lighten the load on the server by keeping requests from going to the server when there is no need to do so.
 - HTTP is a stateless protocol. A stateless protocol does not require the HTTP server to retain information or status about each user for the duration of multiple requests. However, some web applications implement states or server side sessions using for instance HTTP cookies or hidden variables within web forms.
 - HTTPS extention of HTTP and it is essentially a way of encrypting HTTP traffic. This prevents man-in-the-middle attacks and data sniffing. It also ensures that you are communicating with the server that you think you are communicating with by identifying the server.


REST
REST, stands for REpresentational State Transfer. REST is web standards based architecture and uses HTTP Protocol. It revolves around resource where is identified by URIs (Uniform Resource Identifier) and accessed by using HTTP standard methods and uses various representation like text, JSON, XML.

Server simply provides access to resources

Client accesses and modifies the resources using HTTP protocol.

Web services based on REST Architecture are known as RESTful web services. RESTfull key peinciples are:

 - Everything is a resources.
 - Each resources is identifiable by a unique identifier (URI).
 - Use the standard HTTP methods. The native HTTP protocol defines eight actions, also known as verbs (GET, POST, PUT, DELETE, HEAD, OPTIONS, TRACE and CONNECT). There is a parallel with SQL relative the action of Creating, Reading, Updating and Deleting abbreviated as CRUD.
 - Resources can have multiple representations.
 - Communicate statelessly. Implicitly means that partial resource updates are not supported. Essentially, what this means is that the necessary state to handle the request is contained within the request itself, whether as part of the URI, query-string parameters, body, or headers.

REST HTTP methods,

GET − This is used to provide a read only access to a resource.
PUT − This is used to create a new resource or replace resource.
DELETE − This is used to remove a resource.
POST − This is used to update a existing resource or create a new resource.

WEB SERVER
Web server is a piece of software designed to serve web pages/web sites/web services. It handles HTTP requests sent by the HTTP client. Examples are IIS, Apache and many more. It is a application/network application (if with multiapps) that is running in some machine to listen in some particular port. The name can also refer to the hardware running this software.

WEB APPLICATION
Web application is a software that is running in a server side and answer the request from the client. As web application/web service will be running inside a web server - normally serving up JSON/XML or performing some action in response to input.

API
An API (Application Programming Interface) is a set of features and rules that exist inside a software program (the application) enabling interaction with it through software - as opposed to a human user interface. The API can be seen as a simple contract (the interface) between the application offering it and other items, such as third-party software or hardware. In Web development, an API is generally a set of code features (e.g. methods, properties, events, and URLs) that a developer can use in their apps for interacting with components of a user's web browser, other software/hardware on the user's computer, or third-party websites and services.

https://hackernoon.com/the-essential-guide-to-http
HyperText Transfer Protocol (HTTP) is a stateless, connection-less, request-response protocol that consists of rules which define communications between clients and servers connected over an established Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) connection

